- Files generated by forager:

The CSV files generated by forager specifically when running the switches pipeline are switch_results.csv, lexical_results.csv, individual_descriptive_stats.csv, and aggregate_descriptive_stats.csv. 

Switch_results.csv displays a chart with four columns: Subject, listing the subject identifiers, Fluency_Item, listing the animals participants named, Switch_value, listing either 1, 2, or 0 based on whether the animals named were in the same cluster(0) or switch occurred(1), and Switch_Method, which lists the switch method used to determine if a switch occurred, simdrop.

Lexical_results.csv is a chart with the same Subject and Fluency_Item columns as switch_results.csv along with Semantic_Similarity, how similar one word is from the previous based on its fifty dimension numeric representation, Frequency_Value, how common a word is in the english language, and Phonological_Similarity, how similar a word sounds to the previous word. Based on the data seen in Switch_results.csv, clusters do not seem to be formed based on phonological similarity as most items in clusters together have a phonological similarity of 0.0001. All listed animals had a frequency in the English language of 1.7 to 5.1.

Individual_descriptive_stats.csv provides more general information about each participant such as the mean, or average, and standard deviation, or variation, in the semantic similarity, frequency, and phonological similarity of the words they produced. It includes the number of switches, and average cluster size and variation between participants. 

Aggregate_descriptive_statistics.csv provides even more generalized data about the set of participants as a whole as it shows the mean number of switches across all participants and the standard deviation of switches per subject. 

- Files generated by my data: 

My results folder contains the seven files listed below, each displaying the data found in a step of my analysis and the differences between the NH and CI groups.

Descriptives_funct_test.txt: This file contains a two column chart, one with the two groups NH and CI, and the other with the total number of animals, items, each group named. The NH group produced 711 items while the CI group produced 596. This means that individuals, in the selected group of participants, with normal hearing produced more items overall.

Group_animal_production.png: This file contains a png image of a chart which shows the mean number of animals produced by group. On the x-axis are the two groups, NH and CI, while the y-axis is the mean number of animals produced. The pattern seen in the descriptive function is present in this graph as well. The NH group produced around 23 animals on average while the Ci group produced around 19. However, the error bars on these graphs overlap indicating that this difference may not be statistically significant.

Similarity_funct_test: This file is a test of the cosine similarity function used in the Similarity class in lexical.py. The function it tests takes in the word2vec file and two words and returns their cosine similarity, from 0 to 1, based on the dimensions and vectors assigned to them in word2vec. The function first checks whether two words are exactly the same. If they are, it returns a semantic similarity value of 1 because they are identical. Then, it checks whether both words exist in word2vec. If one does not, it returns 0 because the cosine similarity cannot be found. Next, it pulls the numeric representations for both words from word2vec and makes them lowercase to account for any case differences. The dot product, or the measure of how similar the two words are in direction and magnitude, of the two vectors is calculated. Through the np.linalg.norm function, the euclidean magnitude of each word's vector is found. Finally, the dot product is divided by the product of both word’s euclidean magnitude. 

Pairwise_similarity.csv: This file contains a three column chart displaying the participant ID, the animal they named, and the semantic similarity between that animal and the one following it. The function used to form this chart takes in a data file and uses the word2vec model. The function first reads in the data-cochlear.txt information, then it organizes it by participant ID and stores it in a variable. Then, it creates an empty output list and goes through each participant's data, or words produced, based on their ID. It gives the first item of their data a similarity value of two. For the remaining items, it compares word1 and word2 using the cosine similarity function. Finally, the output list is updated with the participants ID, the item or word, and the similarity. 

Consecutive_similarity_graph.png: This file contains a png graph displaying the semantic similarity between consecutive responses per group. The x-axis shows the NH and CI groups and the y-axis represents mean semantic similarity between consecutive responses. This graph is created by the function consecutive_similarity_graph which reads in data from the participant_groupings.csv file. For each ID in the dataframe created with data from data-cochlear.txt, it calculates the average value in the similarity column. Next, it merges the participant_groupings dataframe and the data frame created with data from data-cochlear.txt, matching the ID column with the Subject column. Finally, the group mean is calculated by merging the similarity_group_data by group and finding the mean semantic similarity of participants words. The graph shows that individuals with cochlear implants have a higher mean semantic similarity between their consecutive responses than those with normal hearing by about 0.05. This could mean that people with cochlear implants have to rely more on semantic associations than those with normal hearing because they can not rely as heavily on auditory signals or feedback. Because of this reliance, they may have more strongly defined networks and therefore can produce responses that stay within a cluster longer than people with normal hearing. There may also be more diversity in the associations people with normal hearing make because they do have more auditory signals. For example, they could relate words based on phonological similarities or context, so they may have less consecutive responses with less semantic similarity.

Visualize_clusters.png: This file contains a png graph that displays the mean number of clusters and switches for each group. It is created with the visualize_clusters function in the Clusters class in lexical.py. The function reads in data from data-cochlear.txt and participant_groupings.csv then merges the two sets of data. It creates two empty lists: cluster_count and switch_count. Then for each participant and their set of words, their words are put into a list. The function compute_clusters is used to find the number of clusters the participant produces and the number of switches made between clusters. The cluster and switch counts are updated and added to the participant_groupings data frame. This updated version of participant_groupings is merged with the data frame made from data-cochlear.txt so it is connected to the participants' responses. The graph shows that both groups' average number of clusters was higher than their average number of switches. The NH group had a higher number of clusters and switches in comparison to the CI group. The NH group had over 6 clusters and 5 switches while the CI group had just under 6 clusters and 5 switches.

Cluster_and_switch_count.csv: This file contains three columns, one listing participant IDs, a second listing the number of clusters made by that participant, and a third listing the number of switches between clusters each participant made. This data is one of two results of the Clusters class created in the lexical.py file. To display the number of clusters and switches created, this function utilizes the switch_simdrop function in the file switch.py.This function takes in a fluency list containing a list of words and a list of the semantic similarity between each of the words, calculated based on the vectors established in word2vec. Then, the function creates an empty list called simdrop. It goes through each item in the fluency list, excluding the first and last item, and examines the semantic similarity between it and the word before and after it. If the semantic similarity values of both words surrounding the current word is greater than the semantic similarity value of the word itself, the function returns a 1, signifying that a switch occurred. If this is not the case, the function returns a 0, signifying that a switch did not occur. If the word is the first or last word in the list, it returns a 2, meaning there are no words to compare the word to. Based on this formula, the cluster_and_switch_count.csv calls the simdrop function, using a list of the words produced by each participant as the fluency list and the word2vec dimensions to obtain similarity values. It compares each word in a given participants list to the words around it then generates switches and clusters. The total number of these switches/clusters per participant is displayed.

- Similarities and differences between the data in my files and those made by forager:

1. To use the forager package, a domain, or category all the words fell into had to be selected. Given that this experiment has participants name as many animals as possible, I selected the animal domain. However, not every animal named by participants exists in the embeddings file for the animal domain and those that didn’t exist were excluded from the dataset, as displayed in evalyation_results.csv. I believe this could create differences in cluster sizes, number of clusters and switches, and overall items produced by participants. The word2vec model I used to calculate semantic similarity contained a more generalized set of english words, allowing every animal named by participants to be accounted for. 

2. The results created by forager and my code both used the simdrop switch method to discover switches and clusters, meaning that the method for calculating a switch was the same and the switch numbers per participant are the same, with the exception of alterations made due to the issue brought up in the previous bullet point. 

3. Several columns from individual_descriptive_stats.csv display similar results to my data. The semantic_similarity_mean column contains the mean semantic similarity for every participant, and the numbers range around 0.45. The consecute_similarity_graph file in my results folder displays the mean semantic similarity of consecutive responses per group. The bars on the graph range from around 0.44 to 0.5.

4. Several files in the forager output folder contain data about phonological similarity. None of my results or code contain such data. 

5. The lexical_results.csv file contains data on the pairwise semantic similarity between one animal produced and the one following it. My function generated different similarity values, but I believe this is due to the lexical results file setting the value of the first animal produced by each participant equal to 0.0001 instead of 2, likely signifying a different way of calculating the pairwise similarity.
